---
title: knoto
created: 2025-01-28
description: homepage
---

# welcome to knoto

knoto is a tool to collect and explore information spatially. In its core,
the application works like an infinite whiteboard on which user inputs are
clustered depending on their content. Automating the placement ensures
consistent and reliable organization, while minimizing the barrier to
include additions. The resulting knowledge topology not only displays
relations between entries but also serves as a mnemonic device when trying
to recollect the location of a particular note.

To place inputs strategically without user intervention, some kind of
machine intuition is necessary. The algorithm has to evaluate arbitrary
information in regard to the existing corpus of notes. There are several
pre-trained transformer based models that allow text to be converted into
highly dimensional vector embeddings, still containing semantic
characteristics of the input. These can then be reduced to a two or
three-dimensional position vector using a projection algorithm. During
this dimensionality reduction, the goal is to preserve as much distance
between individual data points as possible.

Even though the visual design aspect of this project is not the main
focus, the user interface plays a crucial role in the usability of the end
result. Since the frontend will be built on web technologies, there is a
vast selection of libraries available. Implementing the knowledge map
visualization using a suitable existing framework will offer more
stability than a custom solution, while also freeing up development time
that can be utilized to ensure better placement predictions.
